all right we are on the record uh
convening this week's meeting this week
is July 9th 2004 of the endover charter
revision commission uh present are
myself Karen Mador jod gross Jeff
Maguire Carol Lee um what did I miss
Patricia Bings thank you uh Adrien is
not present and member of the public we
have Town attorney Dennis
O'Brien all right so we are called to
order the next item on the agenda is
public speak the only member of the
public is the attorney which I'm sure
he's going to have plenty of time to
speak uh in our next item so we'll
proceed on to unless anybody on the
commission has any public speak items
that they wish to bring up okay we'll
proceed to approval
of let me I I do I do have one thing and
it relates to minutes Bob
um all the minutes are not posted on the
town
website we have to get that done that's
not okay so right now we don't have the
528 minutes posted we don't have the 625
minutes posted and we're going to
approve the 72 minutes but you know know
we really should get those there and
especially the 625 one and
Carol I thought I asked for that earlier
this week I'm not sure if I if I got it
if I maybe it went to a different email
I guess gotta that one I need to look at
because that one had a lot of the
Motions that were
passed so I'm just saying that Bob
that's just a housekeeping issue they've
got to go up on the town website Carol
you're muted I'm sorry I I'm just
looking and you're right 25th is not up
and we did send those over so I will
check tomorrow I know that Kate's been
real busy though with tax
collection well someone someone we we
need to get someone to do that Carol
because in my head
we're you know this is hard this is hard
enough as it is for us imagine the
public trying to follow what the heck
we're doing so like I said we have
nothing posted for the 28
we have the 641 we have the 6111 we have
68 the 6181 we don't have the 625 up and
we have to get the six the
72 out to everybody and
approved okay I will 72 on my apology 72
yes that that was it now Bob you can go
on sorry about that okay no thank you
Jeff that's important thank you for
bringing it to the attention of the
commission and I'm sure Carol will get
on Kate to uh to post that stuff all
right so item three then is approval of
last week's
minutes which Carol took and circulated
as a PDF
document um do everybody received that
everybody have a copy of it okay anybody
have any comments additions
Corrections um just as
a the only thing that was passed there
Carol was the ordinance issue and right
the email that I sent should be included
in that at least in my head because the
way we did it is we sat there and said
oh this motion passed based upon blah
blah blah but that should be in the
document for the right and I was looking
for that I didn't that in my inbox yet
okay then I'll send it to you
immediately okay thank you
yep so you're saying there's an
additional item that Carol needs to
include in last week when Jeff made his
motions at last week's meeting I just
asked that he sent over in the body of
an email everything that he was saying
so the wording was exact and I didn't
get that which I did I did send to the
town attorney but I had sent to you an
advance Bob everybody had seen the the
the language and then we made some
modifications at the meeting before we
passed the timing and uh we talked about
the notice going to the public and those
types of things so let me uh let me get
that out to everybody right now okay and
I'll attach that okay thank you I'll
make a motion to approve the 72
minutes I'll
second any additional discussion on
this all those in favor I I any
opposed so it carries
unanimously and that's the minutes
which takes us to agenda item four
discussion and possible action upon any
Charter revision issue so since last
week as Jeff indicated the draft that we
had was sent over to the town attorney
and we've seen a couple of revisions
today there was there was his comments
and then in pretty quick succession a uh
an addendum to his comments um has
everybody seen I also uh I was a little
bit confused by what was going going on
and so um you know I didn't want to try
to tease out everything in in what we
had into into separate sections so I
just made an index you know I went
through all of the the draft changes
that we had and then just created kind
of a little road map so if you want to
find say you know where uh we talked
about elections and voting it's in 203
ACD in 210 so at least we we have kind
of a quick way of finding the the
relevant section so we can do a an in
intelligent comparison between what we
sent to the attorney and uh and what he
uh what he changed um at this point
would it be appropriate Dennis for you
to uh go through what you've
done I I think so Bob if you would uh I
think that would probably be a good way
to save time and get right to the heart
of the
matter um I just want to say to to begin
I I uh you know you
you all haven't been meeting for all
that long really and you've you've
really done an awful lot of work and
that's
wonderful and unfortunately for me I had
a personal uh tragedy that occurred on
June 9th and um I wasn't able for a
while to keep up with you I did my very
best and um anyway I I I I've written
this uh proposal which is a draft report
proposal up in the same format that done
them in the past the last couple of
times we've had Charter revisions the
first one uh the longest too one was
when we implemented the uh Town
Administrator position which was a few
years ago and then there was the one
last year when the feature of the of the
package was the uh was the uh budget and
the way the B possible bifurcation of
the budget and that was a little bit
complex and uh you know that that that
worked out well so I'm using the same
format trying to make it as simple as
possible although I must say and for a a
commission that had a relatively short
um uh lifespan in terms of you know it
started late and you know we we don't
have an awful lot of time you didn't
have an awful lot of time and you also
had relatively short meetings uh
meetings for an hour I wish I could do
that I'm not good at meetings for an
hour uh usually my any meeting I'm takes
longer than that I'll try I'll try to be
as brief as I can but um I think you got
into a lot of issues and sometimes when
you do that in a short period of time it
can be difficult but I think you came up
with some really great proposals and I
tried to introduce them into the
language of the charter to some extent
because you know to give it some context
in in some key places especially so what
I've done is is Sim very similar to what
I've written in the past in those last
two charart revisions which were very
successful and this is a this this came
out to be eight pages long because I did
get an awful lot of input from you all
that I didn't expect and and that and
and I tried to put it all together and
uh I think in some uh
instances perhaps minor ones I I think I
was a little bit I didn't get it all but
I think I got most of it and I think I
got it in uh what I consider to be my
usual professional style and and and uh
this is the you know it's it's a it's an
eight-page document with single spacing
uh you know as it as it points out one
of the reasons I'm I'm using the phone
is because I don't have a color printer
and I really have to refer to it on my
my my uh computer and um if you want me
to go through it Page by page I can do
that as briefly as
possible Bob you're muted yeah I
realized that um I think that would be
instructional um just you know brevity
is the soul of play on okay I I will try
to do it briefly uh but you know
remember we we're on a we're on a a a
short deadline you did get the board of
Selectmen to give you a little more time
for submission of the draft report which
is actually due now on the 22nd of this
month uh the if I'm not mistaken the uh
you know and the plan from what I
understand from uh from from car talking
to Carol and also talking to uh Jeff is
to get the uh get this thing finished
this week and and published in the uh uh
the uh River East on Friday for a public
hearing possibly either next Tuesday or
uh W uh Wednesday because you have to
have a public hearing once this thing is
uh finalized to your
satisfaction and uh
so uh without anym more hesitation let
me just start with the beginning and and
one of the things that comes up in the
beginning is the notion that came up
early in your
deliberations actually before the before
I had my personal tragedy happen on June
uh it was clear that there was a lot of
agreement on U moving in the direction
of giving the boorder to Selectmen more
uh more Authority in in terms of passing
ordinances and and this this whole thing
about it starts out with the definition
Section
105 which defines minor ordinance minor
ordinance has been um a bit problematic
in the past it's defined but um it's who
it's very very hard to determine what's
minor and what's not we have passed
minor ordinances through the board of
Selectmen over the years it's worked out
pretty well there are a lot of them in
place now I don't know how well they're
organized in the uh in the in the uh you
know in the in the documents of the town
I'm sure they're in the town clerk's
office and and uh because Carol keeps
everything just just so and but I I
don't know that they're available on the
town website anyway there are some minor
Ord es and what all this does is so it
basically eliminates the minor ordinance
category going forward but it also says
that any ordinance that was passed as a
minor ordinance in the past shall remain
in effect un L and until it is is
repealed or amended by the board of
select um who presumably under this
Charter if it passes would have the uh
the ordinance power that's section 105
is the definitions part uh in a nutshell
any questions on
that should I just keep
going yeah I think if you don't hear
anybody scream just keep
going well okay okay good I I I'm sure I
some Screaming later on or maybe not
anyway the next section I I I addressed
the section 203 Town officers general
election that is where we really make
the change that has already been made
really by the board of Selectmen sort of
tacitly or
implicitly and actually in effect
changing our election cycle for
Municipal elections from the uh May uh
the outlier I'd say may election cycle
to November which is what about
everybody else does and which I think
the state of Connecticut is kind of
wants everybody to do okay so this makes
it official that that our election uh
municipal election is going to happen
every
year uh every every I'm sorry every odd
numbered year in the uh in November
first Tuesday after the first Monday
which is typical which is which is the
way it works so that just that makes
that change and then going on to section
B that is something that is uh an issue
that you have uh grappled with and that
is uh led by Carol Of course who is the
expert and who who knows much more about
this than anybody else the town clerk
phys let me say this that the uh under
this under the state statute SE section
9-15 which I cited in here the default
for town clerk uh or placing a person in
the town clerk position is to elect the
town clerk most towns that I know of do
not do that anymore and and I think
there's a there was a uh discussion that
I attended where you know the talk was
in favor of moving in the direction of
an appointed Town cork one of the
advantages of that
is the future is is that you can draw
from a much larger pool of potential
applicant if need be I mean you know the
the downside of that is not just it's
not just restricted to electing somebody
from from town in any event I wrote this
up in this way uh section 9-18 5 has a
subsection that says if you want to
switch to an appointed town clerk you
can do it we have to do it by Charter
provision or you can even do it by
ordinance which is really not preferable
so what I have done based on what I
heard and what I think I know is I've
changed it so that the uh you know Carol
Lee was elected uh as you all know in
the fall of
2023 serve a four term extending through
2027 so what this does and there's more
mention of it later on is to change the
uh system so that once uh her term
expires the border of selectman will be
appointing a town clerk and C that
certainly could be Caroline it all
depends on what they want to do at that
time in 20 in the latter stages of 2027
so this language here is in there to
affect that type of result
is that was that our intent Andor is
that a
requirement that it's sort of a fouryear
term it's um I mean you're you're sort
of now almost moving into employee
status and you're essentially saying hey
you have a job for four years is that
right I think as the Town Administrator
have something
similar no I think I think our intent
was for it to mirror the Town
Administrator and that once appointed
they're hired until they either resign
or they're dismissed for cause or
something like that the Town
Administrator has a two-year contract oh
he does really okay so they are con sort
of contract based in in a way there's
termed base okay well municip uh let's
go this way Municipal Employees
especially non-union municiple employes
have have have exceptional rights and
it's uh
it's a it's not a standard Jody it's not
like a business contractor okay got it
it's not like a business that's okay as
long as you guys think it's normal our
administrator works this way then that's
fine with me you brought up a good point
which is the term of the
contract four years you know is an
excessively long term and it should like
the board of Selectmen too yeah it is um
but it's a but it's a complex role right
that you need that time to learn um and
and it kind of would mirror an election
with a board of Selectmen
so feels about right in my mind town
clerk is and just like the Town
Administrator I I mean My Hope in my
term is we never replace Eric and my
hope would be that the next Board of
selectman hires uh you know well Carol
will end up being appointed to that spot
let's be honest so we're going to be
honest with it so if Carol wants it
Carol would be appointed to it if Carol
does chooses not
to take the turn take the position then
the issue ends up being who and I would
hope that the board of Selectmen that is
in in the position at that point in time
would hire the right person and a
two-year contract or four-year contract
or eight-year contract would be you know
it wouldn't matter because that person
would stay in position to stay
continuity is very important in the town
clerk's position town the Town
Administrator as well I mean I can't
tell you you know Eric came in with no
experience and he's gotten better every
year he's he's continuing to improve his
craft and what he's doing for the town
of Andover and we're very lucky
so um it's a question of two years or
four years the Town Administrator
currently has a two-year contract and
this is for the period 2028 through 2030
we're
talking I'm fine with how Dennis has
his no it's not the way wrote it the way
I wrote it as a four-year term simply
because uh you know you could make it
indefinite once you go to appointment
you can make it forever no as long as
I'm not suggesting that Dennis what I'm
suggesting is it's either four years or
two and if it's four years it's no big
deal and it really should
be uh and I think Carol had written this
was it should be the January it really
should be January like we should appoint
the town clerk
um we should appointed a town clerk in
January because what you should allow is
the board of Selectmen that is then
elected to have the authority to do it
not
the let's sit there and say in the next
election cycle Dennis or anybody we're
gonna that's what I've yeah that's what
I've written B of selectman elected in
2027 which in this case would be they
would be elected early in the month they
would have until January 2nd to appoint
the the either Carol or another person
serve as Town Clerk and that person
would take office on June 2nd I'm I'm
sorry January 2nd of
2028 now if I'm if I'm a uh Carol okay
put myself in her shoes and I've been
running for town clerk for several
cycles for fouryear
terms and you're going to cut the term
for an appointment to two years
I'm going to saywell you know I'm used
to the fouryear cycle and the four-year
cycle has worked really well and let me
say this there are statutes that govern
uh quite specific statutes quite
extensive statutes that govern the role
of the town clerk there is a way under
State Statute to remove a town clerk
from Office who does not do the job that
does not happen very often most towns
that I've worked with and that I know
about have not made hiring mistakes
hiring a town clerk obviously a vitally
important job you got to have somebody
who's really capable doing it and uh
there are such people out there and uh
you know if you do it right you can get
the right person but I I I just made it
a four-year term simply to to uh mimic
what we've done up to now I don't think
anyone's objecting to that um does the
board of Selectmen when they're elected
does it happen in does that switch
happen in November or does it happen in
January it does happen sort of right day
after election there they're app
Point okay so they have time to figure
out from sometime in November to
January got it okay cool
yeah yeah that's the way I saw it I mean
I I again you know I've to some extent
I've had to fill in the
blanks uh on on some of this cuz did
fine if there's no no one else objects
or let's keep going yeah I think we're
all good with this as it's as it's
drafted so let's let's continue
Dennis all right I like it okay and the
next uh sub paragraph is sub paragraph C
which just simply points out for the
most part that uh it switches the
election cycle for everybody else not
the bard of you know not including the
board of selectman and and and um Tom
clerk which have already been addressed
above to all the other off officers uh
that are elected and and they're elected
every two
years okay and that's the way it's been
this is not a change it's the only
change in in C at the top of page two is
the to change the election cycle from
May again to November which is what
we're doing anyway and bring the charter
up to date in that
regard and it says the next paragraph
d uh I put in all terms of office except
as otherwise provided they'll commence
on
the second Tuesday of November following
the town
election uh I think that's probably what
I intended to say is something that I
think you had already indicated I think
Carol in your in your materials that you
wanted to the those people to take
office on the second Tuesday after the
election right because sure when we went
to November elections this year that was
how you had me report to the Secretary
of State when the newly elected off
would be seated so I just felt
continuity for that
second I I I I like that a lot I think
that um I think that uh this language
I've written is a little confusing could
it could mean the second Tuesday of
November
rather than the second Tuesday following
the town election I I think I can change
a word or two and make say just change
the second to the
third that's what it is yeah the third
that's right because it'll always be the
third
Tuesday
okay okay so I can change I can make a
quick change on that I I know exactly
what you're looking for I I I noticed
that when I went over just a few minutes
before the meeting that I think I'm um
very rare for me to do this but my
language is a little unclear all right
if I do say so myself okay early voting
220 uh 210 I'm sorry my glasses on that
is something that was suggested by you
all to put in uh I don't think it's
necessary but it's nice to put it in
there because wow is it going to be an
important factor in our elections now
given the length of the period which I
think is too long but it's not up to me
legislature has
decided and um so just simply says the
dates are going to be determined by the
general statutes as
amended okay moving on to the town
meeting um this is where we this is
where we uh change the uh allocation of
legislative
Authority between the board of Selectmen
and the um town meeting in favor of more
Authority for the border of selectman
that's all this
does
essentially in so many words and so many
subparagraphs and then down
below at the suggestion I believe of
Carol who pointed to the U I know I got
the word that she had had been looking
at the hebin
charter and they do have a provision in
there where somebody can um appeal
appeal from a decision of the board of
selectman to pass a certain ordinance
and bring it to
referendum which is something that is
relatively common Winden does that too
my homeown my hometown It's all under
different uh details but I think the one
thing that confused me in this section
which I did not
include was that this and this requires
I think some discussion here some sort
of a a a notice
from the town to the voters that that
the town um that the board of selectman
has passed an
ordinance uh that is going to make the
um process very
complicated and because normally Carol I
think you you know that 20 days is the
the time usually after which the an
ordinance is passed after which it
becomes
effective it's usually during that
20-day window that a petition can be
filed but if notice has to go out to all
the voters in the
interum that makes it pretty
complicated and I don't know what you
want if you want to stick with that I
can I can introduce that in there
somehow with Carol's
help because the time frame is G why
does that make that difficult I mean
what we talked about at the meeting was
a notice goes out even if it's even if
it's 10 days after the board of s
meeting and the notice goes out all the
voters have time to sit there and and
read what is being
proposed and the timeline the 20-day
timeline starts when the town clerk's
office receives it stamps it in as
received and says okay clock gets
started if someone wants to petition
that's that's the
clock
yeah there's a public hearing that we
talk about on in 301 so people are going
to get a notice of that right well
they're going to get a notice of the
public hearing we're going to talk about
it then the board of Selectmen passes it
then a notice would go out to the public
that an ordinance is is being is going
to be
passed and the clock for 20 days starts
when that notice is received by the Tom
clerk's
office that will that will delay the
process and will delay it will give the
it will give the voters the electors I
guess a lot more time to get a petition
together uh it will encourage the filing
of petitions good if you wanted if you
know it may not it may not I mean I
think in a lot in most places where
these things exist uh not a lot of
petitions are filed because the uh the
voters will trust elected officials
although yeah I mean we wrestled with
this I think we actually had some really
healthy conversation we wanted to give
the public the that up without
opportunity to really that check and
balance of the t board of Selectmen and
I think as Jeff pretty eloquently said
is we're they're going to have a pulse
on these things and they're not going to
do anything crazy right um so it was a
little bit of that balance so I you know
I think we we wanted everyone to know
what they're doing in some capacity and
giving everyone a good opportunity to
petition um and have that
process all right well I'll work with
Carol to introduce that in and we're
going to have to change some time
frames and uh that can be
done um it's just that uh you know time
is of time is of the essence and that's
okay Dennis Dennis that the timeline the
20 days starts when the public mailer is
received by the town clerk's office
that's it so notice bard of selectman
goes through public hearing Board of
selectman passes the ordinance the
notice goes out the notice is received
by the town clerk's office and 20 days
starts
then okay you're saying then that when
you talk about a public mailer go you
say it goes out goes out from who from
the board of Selectmen the board of
Selectmen through the town clerk's
office will send out a townwide
mailer just like we do for pretty much
every election we do right Carol
anything we
do and it goes out it gets it gets
received by the town clerk's office the
town clerk is one of the addresses on
the
mailer once it's received she stamps it
and that's when 21 20 days
starts what is it going to give them an
extra five days to get organized if
they're going to want to sit there and
petition the ordinance they're gonna do
it no matter
what so okay we're doing our our best
okay to make the community feel
comfortable that we're not just is
trying
to Ram things down their
throat well I have to say that of all
the times I've ever been involved with
and I've been involved with a lot of
them you you all bend over backwards to
um I I hesitate to use the word spoon
feed but I can't think of another
another thing and that is
okay it's it's certainly
legal uh I just find that um in my
experience processes that become more uh
complex in any way tend to be
uh problematic that government needs to
be streamlined people need to understand
the the way things work but this is uh
the way as long as Carol understands it
the way you do uh she and I will get
together right Carol and we're going to
put this back in and make it work um uh
so that it makes sense to um everybody
including
me Dennis I think the reason that went
behind the the mailer here was if we are
going to remove the the town meeting
from the process we want to to go the
extra mile to make sure that the public
has had sufficient due notice of these
things so nobody can say hey we didn't
know it was
happening I I I I get that Bob I get
that I I I understand but but it is it
is unusual and and it's uh you know it
it is but it is typical of what you do
in Handover because you send notices of
all all kinds of things out to the
public and and uh you know that is um
I'm not a member of the Town staff over
at town hall that has to get all this
stuff together but um anyway I've I've
said my piece and I I I okay you are in
charge it's okay we can do
that so Carol and I will work on that
together but I one of the reasons I
didn't include it in I didn't fully
understand the timing of it all and
who's sending this out and who's getting
it and
whatnot but now I think I have it more
clear and Carol certainly does and so we
can do together as we often do thank you
all right
so just uh typo in here I've got a few
and um all right so the annual Town
budget meeting uh wait before we on
there Dennis okay there's something else
that I see has gotten lost in the
translation which is that okay um in our
section two of um 301a which became your
paragraph three uh what we said that um
we will schedule a special referendum to
be conducted simultaneously with the
regularly scheduled to be held in
November or the next regularly scheduled
referendum immediately following
validation of such petition and that
second Clause there didn't make it to
your
draft okay so so you're saying that
you're saying that the uh the ref the
referendum on an ordinance can also be
held independ uh in in conjunction with
another referendum that's already
already going to already being scheduled
May or
November in May or November they can be
held in May or
no okay okay because you're gonna that's
going to make a big difference in terms
of turnout but um okay I get it I think
I recall seeing that somewhere and all
the paperwork I've looked at in the past
several several days Yeah in our draft
section 301a paragraph two the last
sentence of paragraph
two wait a minute let me write that down
it was in my email that I sent to you
and I sent to the the
group okay the one you I had sent the
email to the group and then during our
meeting I changed the text and it's in
Black those were the items that we
identified in Black that would be
changed so
townwide townwide regular scheduled in
either May or
November okay so you know I I I'm taking
all these U uh changes that you want and
um as long as these are done by as long
as you authorize me to work with the
town clerk to get these these
done um before uh she publishes the
notice in the River East that uh because
what she what she will do to correct me
if I'm wrong Carol is say that copies of
the uh of the U draft report are are
available at the office of the town
clerk correct yes
yes okay so we we can we can fix this
Stu if you
trust you better trust Carol no we do
but Bob what I would
recommend one second Dennis one second
so we're reviewing Dennis's document
tonight any changes should come back to
the members of the commission and we
should have a quick meeting on another
day to make sure we're all we should get
it read it and then come to a meeting
prepared to sit there and say if we have
issues with any of the items before it
gets to the next
step could you do that on
Thursday that's up to the board I mean
I know but I'm just asking is everybody
available
Thursday I could I could be available it
won't take
long okay I mean Dennis when could we
get it do we get it on Wednesday
evening that's
tomorrow yeah sure all right I have
no all right so we'll schedule another
special meeting for Thursday same time
can we can we what um Dennis do we have
a problem posting
that
uh you have to post it
UHS post it tomorrow 24 hours right I
can
post
okay yeah okay so do we motion for that
or are we all good or should we make a
motion for that let's make a motion
anybody want to move so
I make a motion that we schedule a
special meeting of the charter revision
commission for Thursday uh July 11th at
six o'clock second
that any further discussion all in favor
I I I any
opposed carries unanimously all
right thank you very much I like that
good
plan okay so let's move
head special Town meetings uh annual
Town budget meeting okay that's going to
be uh it's going to be uh earlier in the
year the second week of April that's in
section 303
303 right that's all that's in there as
long as you're satisfied with the U
everything in the uh preceding section
about appealing from an ordinance uh
except for what you want me want to be
changed and I've already
stated okay so then special town meeting
section
304 that is an important section that is
something that I thought you uh did a
marvelous job on because uh it enables
the uh it enables the uh it keeps a lot
of this uh these determinations from
being made at a town meeting every time
they up in other words you've changed
the
thresholds and I just want to make sure
that I I have them
right for all of these items the
issuance of bonds and whatnot all the
way through there I don't know if you
want to go through them one by
one but I I tried to take that from
items that I received
from oh there's a double Bel in
there well I got them side by side what
we submitted and what you uh what you
came
back so Bob can you make so let's just
go through the numbers is $50,000 issue
into bonds and financing the accurate
number I believe that
is would you like me to share my screen
so we can all look at the same thing at
the same time let's do it okay hang on a
sec I will do
that uh
everybody see
that
okay so this is what we submitted and
this is what um Dennis came back
with
so so let's see so 304a it's
$50,000
304b half a percent became
1% the paragraph on supplemental
Appropriations is
here just tell me to slow down if I'm
gonna go if I go too quick no you're
good okay we go down to e leases in
excess of
$50,000 um term or obligation in excess
of one year or 100,000 now where did
that come
from because I see that in our
draft Dennis do we still have
you yeah I I'm here but I don't I don't
recall exactly where I got that from
um if it's wrong we'll just take it
out well it's not something that we
submitted
so we
submitted nothing I would have created
that's this is not something that I
would uh mess around with yeah well well
let's remove that because I don't
believe that's in the minutes
either e we're gonna
remove and a cost and a cost of $100,000
or
more okay everything else I'm GNA delete
that
from okay okay
uh and F also doesn't seem to be in our
draft
but we have going from a quarter of a
percent to
2% I think we're gonna have to go back
and look at the minutes or something I'm
just wondering if I think the minutes
say 1% 1% it's either it's either 1% or
it was one it was the same one quarter
of
1% I mean the minutes
were well what I what I on that was on
the June 4th minutes that I was
reading yeah what I have on the left
here is what Carol sent out on July
3 and that would be exactly what was
still in the the original document so
then there was no change
but I I actually think it goes back to
no change because I don't think we
changed that one that one we left it was
still in the minutes which I thought was
odd and it's extremely confusing exceeds
one quarter of 1% of the budget
number so that would
be point it's it's
0.25%
um that's why I like numbers I like flat
numbers like if you're going to do
100,000 it's $100,000 if you're going to
say $50,000 it's $50,000 I hate percent
I mean I'm an accountant I'm sorry I
hate percentages in things like this and
it's a finance guy I like percentages
yes of course and it it it it's always
what works in your favor I like
definitive things that you know but I
agree with Jeff that I looked back at
those six four minutes and I don't think
we modified yeah what I got from Bob's
email I think Bob you did the work with
um the Town Administrator on it I don't
think you guys proposed any change to
that item I don't think we voted on that
so Dennis we'd have to go back to
one%
F right no change to f y no change to I
think that's what we all agree on okay
leave it let it be let it be okay all
right got that so that's F
uh
g g to change yeah right
right G is is that right no G is
$25,000 well
[Music]
no this language is completely wrong
here in G what
what where I got I got it from minutes
or some
something well no I mean I remember us
discussing this in detail that uh the
application for participation in any
Grant um is going to be entirely
dependent on what our portion of the
grant is it has to be you know if uh if
we don't have to put a penny in then you
know then we should be able to to just
apply for it and get the money without
without having to uh to go to a a
special meeting um yep yeah you have a
fixed limit in here the language that we
had submitted that's in Carol's uh July
3rd document is is what we had agreed
upon which is that uh you know the
application for participation in any
Grant uh excluding the local and
Regional Board of Education in which
participation shall require the town
Andor the local Board of Ed to
contribute in excess of
$25,000 uh in cash or provide any
in-kind participation to enter into such
grant program so that's we we completely
condition this upon how much the town
was going to have to kick in not upon
the size of the grant
itself yeah the minutes reflect that too
Bob
okay
so I'll look I have I have Carol yeah
304 G
four G
yeah can you slow down Bob go to I go to
I okay on the right side yeah okay such
other matters in their discretion shall
Dean okay I got that yeah I mean it
makes sense for Dennis to have taken out
the ordinance language there yep
understood all right and then J we
talked about removing that is entirely
removed yeah yeah okay
okay uh section you keeping up with us
Dennis I am okay so section
305 um why why don't you why why don't I
hand this back to you Dennis keep these
up there because it's
very all right I got look at 304d what
is
second 304 D and J are related to or
aren't they right so they need to be
removed yeah those that's really what's
in 305 is just two references that need
to be taken out yeah those are those are
items that are being shifted from the
town meeting to the select he is anyway
let me
see and
uh okay I'm sorry Bob I'm looking I'm
looking at you sliding so fast I'm like
did I miss a yellow no okay it's all
right good okay yeah just I'm just
strikes D in his document which is
appropriate I think he's looking at J
okay good
402 all right 402 General powers and
duties of the
selectman uh what do we do
here yeah to enact or rather than just
to recommend ordinances to to enact them
this is pretty pretty Straight
Ahead gives them the ordinance power
subject to appeal of course by a vote by
a right I just want to make throw a
comment in here since this is you know
what we're what we're talking about here
um I have been contacted by residents of
the Town who wish to remain anonymous
for the purpose of this meeting who um
seem to have a lot of heartburn about
granting this additional Authority uh to
the board of Selectmen and uh I agreed
at least to to voice this concern at the
appropriate point in the meeting since
they they reached out and contacted me
um I think the feeling was that it's too
much Authority in one place and uh how
can we trust the board of Selectmen and
uh
that's all I'm gonna
say this was on
ordinances excuse me on ordinances is
that correct yes yes this individual had
grave concerns about granting this level
of authority uh to the board of
Selectmen and granting this this
additional legislative power and taking
the um and that's that's an opinion and
I think what you know I sleep well at
night knowing we built the structure and
for petition process if there was not
one or two or three but if there were 50
residents that really felt like our
Board of Selectmen have done something
Haywire that they have the opportunity
to bring it to the whole town so I'm not
saying that I endorse this opinion I
just I just agreed to bring it to the
floor thank you done let's move on I
would I would be surprised if there were
not opinions like that uh you know out
in the community this is not something
that is is going to be loved by
everybody yeah distrust of leadership
it's pretty common I
guess it it's right it's all about what
you know what do you want to go with a
represent representative government in
this regard or or not and and those
those those issues are difficult and but
I think it's a good call I think that um
especially as as you have pointed out
over and over uh that the citizens have
a chance to uh appeal uh any ordinance
and this would be an ordinance a a
certain type of ordinance certain types
of ordinances that um you know they
could appeal to and go to referendum on
I just want to point out one thing and
I've been involved in a lot of ordinance
Creation in the past few years working
with the board of Selectmen and town
meetings and uh there really has been a
lot of cooperation between the board of
selectman and the public in terms of
town meetings where ordinances are up
for consideration and just about
everything that the board has put
forward uh to the town meeting in the
past several years has passed which is
which is is really good news that uh you
know you know that that that the board
and the public are working together uh
in in harmony pretty much but but
there's always going to be people uh you
know have different opinions and they
certainly are entitled to them and
they're that's not something that is
just uh notable in the town of Andover
everywhere any well I take I take
personal offense to that I'm extremely
trustworthy you you're taking you're
taking offense to a compliment that's
not a compliment I'm talking about the
the the the the the public not come to a
meeting to tell me that I am not
trustworthy I I have I have a problem
with
that I think I'm extremely trustworthy
well it might not be you as an
individual Jeff it might be the actions
of the members of the board of
Selectmen as Jody as I tried to tell as
I try to tell Dennis hold on for a
second as I try to tell everybody just
simply
um there is for for members of the board
of Selectmen in this board there is zero
personal gain that that is happening
that can happen and that is happening I
mean we've made the changes to sit there
and take the Town Administrator and put
that person in a paid position so I just
sit there and I look at the town of
Andover it's in a very good position as
far as I'm concerned and the current
situation of trust I I don't I don't
we're not National politics we're local
politics we do things very simply to for
the benefit of Andover and those types
of issues I would love Bob for them to
come out and at least have the
conversation with the board of Selectmen
if they feel that we're we're doing
things that aren't in the Public's
interest and we can't be trusted I sure
would like to know that and if I'm doing
something wrong i' I'd like to fix it
I'll come to your next meeting then Jeff
thanks Express a few you can express it
for
me all right let's move
on okay
yeah some people say I talk too much
Jeff all right I
apologize no no I I I'm enjoying this a
lot okay uh okay for public hearing on
publication of ordinances okay
that oh yeah that that just removes the
reference to Charter section
1058 which is the minor ordinance
portion that we're
deleting make it uh take that out of the
mix except for things that have been
done in the past terms of office uh hang
on hang on Dennis um there was another
uh little bit that didn't make it in
from section 44 in our changes uh we
specified every ordinance unless it
shall be specified a later date shall
become effective on the strike
21st uh day and change it to 45th day
after such
publication okay that's that's right
that didn't make it in there because I
was uh a little stunned by that because
the norm is the 20 days but uh I
understand now why you did I think I
understand why you did that and that's
because of this thing about we talked
about before about the mailer the
so-called mailer that's why you're doing
45 days no that was that was to give the
community more of an opportunity
to uh
[Music]
to understand the ordinance before went
in fact to be more transparent and more
open so that is in that is in um maybe
it's in two places but that is in
Dennis's document uh did it 301a
paragraph two yeah but it has to be
changed there as well in 404 okay got it
both places makes sense changed in both
places that's right so that's
404 and Dennis needs to change the four
the three
uh the sections related to the ordinance
because he was going with the 21 days
from publication and we had changed it
from 21 days for potential uh or 20 days
for potential petition and 45 days to
enactment that that that was what we
were trying to do to be as trustworthy
as we possibly could
be transparent okay very good very good
I got that all right okay I'm I'm
I'm you got my attention on that one
thank good okay terms of
office
um comment on the second Tuesday
immediately following the banial
municipal election in
November okay that is that that is
language I think I got from
Carol that is it has to be the third
Tuesday
yeah to to clarify it will say that but
it's the second Tuesday immediately
following the biannual election is
actually the third Thursday the third
Tuesday correct yeah I the same thing
differently but uh if you want I mean I
can I can I can make that change clarify
section 605 to well
605 605 if you said the third Tuesday
would
then line up with the other section that
that was
in that's what I'm say yeah that's right
but that is for the appointed ones
Dennis and you told me those did not
change and we were keeping them as they
are after we had the last election so
isn't section
605 in regards to all those appointed
boards that are identified in section
606 because last last
election it was just decided that all of
the appointed boards would remain still
could be appointed and their their term
of office would be July
one so are we change we didn't vote to
change that we didn't do anything with
that
because like I say the appointed boards
were just left as they
were after we November to app point
barl I'm pretty sure that that section
605 you look it up yeah Town Town board
members shall be for two years and shall
commence on the 1 Monday
July all Town board members shall be
eligible for reappointment and she'll
continue in office sucess yeah they're
appointed leave that alone so take 605
out you want to leave that alone yes
leave it the way it is yeah we never
voted Charter I
mean Carol we we never voted to change
that and when we had our first municipal
election last November we discussed this
and I think it was just decided that the
terms of the office and will remain the
same for appointed boards and
commissions so I guess we could discuss
it if everybody want no no no don't do
not do that because do not do that okay
do not do that that's that's
very to reappoint boards is always a
confusing thing and if you try to right
around the elections you're gonna end up
with problems so just leave it as July
and they're appointed boards and we need
the volunteers and to confuse it in an
election will cause future
problems what I'm going to do Carol is
just remove the current Charter says in
July first Monday of in July of 19 99
I'm just going to take out of
1999 so it'll be just July okay we need
do we need to make a motion for that and
and and accept that or can we make the
motion when we approve this in total
every I mean that's up to you Bob I
think I think when you approve it in
total you do it all yeah I agree that's
what I would do let's move on let's move
on
yes okay so okay
ready to move on yeah go
ahead okay administrative
Services uh chapter 7 section
okay I because we tried to do this you
know I I've been annoyed for a long time
personally and you can you can not you
can reject this
but uh requiring a competitive
exam process and interview committee and
all this stuff is never been as far as I
know it's never been
done and I don't I don't see why it
should stay in the charter so I I threw
that in just for you to
consider 701 if you want you can leave
it
alone what even does competitive
examination
mean I don't
know I mean is it an interview process
some towns do
testing and that's the competitive
examination we've never done
that well let's just let it be then I
mean I it's it's just something I'm just
compulsive about things that are in the
charter that are not imple never
implemented and ignored why why keep
them in there but but that's okay I mean
it's not my I'm one of the things I try
to do is I try to make recommendations
and this is my
recommendation but want to bother we
haven't discussed or reviewed this and I
think we should try to limit our changes
to those things that we have that have
gone through the process with us you
know this can this can happen in the
next uh the next
cycle I I very very good Bob very good
okay so I I'll just leave it be section
um 701 will remain as it is
no you have to remove the first
sentence right the one that's
highlighted in yellow because we're
adding
702 delete with the exception of
7020 town clerk which is an elected
position oh
okay I got it and then leave the rest of
the verbiage the
language leave it in there leave it in
there for a future commission Bob you're
right somebody some commission that has
16 months to work on it not one that has
what three three
months if you had that
much let's keep going okay now these
these
suggestions 702 that came from you
Carol the director of Health here we go
right that was that was just something
that we're doing any we're doing right
now I was just that
just no no no wait okay so we're going
to remove that
sentence we're going to remove that
sentence yeah did we vote on that was
the
materials likewise that was just
suggested because we're not following
that and any
right and I don't have any problem with
it Bob this would be like the same thing
we'll vote on at the next time I don't
have a problem removing that because we
employ a consultant or an outside entity
to fill that role
agreed I mean and so the question is do
we want to make a motion to remove it
and all be on the record of saying we
voted it down or do it in the next stage
of reviewing Dennis's
document how about we do it through
unanimous consent yeah i''d be fine with
a technical clarification here to remove
it that's okay you guys are really just
trying to clean up this document of the
actual practice of town if we hear no
objections then so ordered through
unanimous consent
okay got
it that's something that we don't do
enough we've only you've only been
together now for a very short time
you've done a lot wa wait wa yeah Dennis
has that in there so e is in there okay
yes e is in there too that was something
that Carol also suggested and
I hey I went along with it yeah now the
question is going to be and I'm just
saying we we now have a sanitarian and
wetlands enforcement
officer this goes into the whole thing
Carol and this is more of a global thing
will we be hiring an employee and are we
required to hire an employee if if the
position let's say it becomes part of a
shared service and what happens in those
situations well the health is that's
what we do now with the health district
they regionalized that what was it in
2005 or something like that and that's
when we went with Eastern thailands so
contract now MOG for the animal
control that could happen on all of
these positions right
even like the treasurer the treasurer
is technically right now not an
employee it's a it's a independent
contractor
right I I I didn't want to open up let's
not let's not get into all of it because
if we get into all of it we're gonna
we'll be in this section for a
lot keep going we're
operating yeah we we have a deadline
coming up soon
uh so you want to leave that alone yep
go just leave it out let it be no no no
make that change because that was an
easy change I we'll make that okay
that's the last one I think that that
Carol suggested and then
I've I've
changed go go goe the only other one was
the tax collector with salary because we
haven't been doing that for a long
time I didn't I didn't include that one
Carol
I don't know how must overed it but
that's pretty definite it says the said
officer shall be compensated on a salary
basis only we have not been doing
that they
are see this this is really te Carol
where it's really technical because
they're in an hourly basis but an hourly
G right so we're saying the tax
collector is so many hours
and their pay is consistent as if it was
a salary but it's really based upon a
certain number of hours
um uh I agree with Carol let's remove
that it's the
same you know what sub is that it's an N
of this section
of
702 and it just
says compensated on a salary basis only
so
yeah this is really a hard one too I'm
just telling everybody is a group
because the tax collector the tax
collector's
role you know Town employee I mean that
it's very difficult when these these
sections in these positions are
positioned as a town employee in certain
in certain competitive examinations and
all the rest of the stuff because it
would be
um you're tying the hands technically if
someone wanted to sue us you're tying
the hands of what we can and can't do
within those positions
so that's for the next group keep moving
but take that out
the Carol we tried to deal with this
last year and it it it it it got shot
down we tried to fix it fision and we
did get yeah triy to fix it in a big way
and and it just didn't make it so we'll
we'll we'll leave it for if you know if
everybody's okay with it we'll leave
this tax collector issue which I really
shy away shy away from and I don't shy
away from too much that I didn't want to
deal with that Carol so we just leave
that
alone so are
we are we including in in the changes or
are we leaving it not changing
it uh not changing it is my
impression no no no no no no I think
what we said is that what Carol had
suggested in yellow in end the said
officer shall be compensated on a salary
basis only was a really I guess a
technical
correction that Carol suggested that I
think Jeff said yeah that really makes
sense there was a bigger issue in in
about examinations and all that that
we're were just gonna let let live so I
think that one minor change in end is
what we wanted to make Carol Jeff you
guys both nodding yes okay and Karen and
Patricia too okay got it okay once again
unanimous consent no
objections okay okay I have that from
Carol's matal so I'll just plug it
in
um so we had the language regarding the
town clerk which is pretty much the same
or similar language that you saw earlier
in the
document about um about the uh town
clerk no longer being elected as of uh
November
of
2027 and the board of Selectmen uh
appointing a clerk for a term of four
years by a minimum of three votes which
isn't you
know a major well it's a super majority
because you you need three votes even of
four people only four people or three
people showed up for a
meeting but um to appoint a person a
qualified person to be the town
clerk that would be the change that
would be made if you're going to a an
appointed town clerk in beginning in
January of
2028 so that language is very similar to
what was in the first part foreshadowing
this there seems to be more language in
what we submitted than what you've
included
here much more I
agree I've discussed this with Carol
earlier
today I think what was submitted
uh I I I I don't like it legally I don't
like it in any way shape or form to tie
the hands of a future board of Selectmen
and require the appointment of a certain
person for another term as a as a person
who has actually run for election many
many times foure terms to then appoint
that person indiv that
individual name to not name the
individual but everybody knows who it
would be I think that that is um over
the top and I think it may not be
legal can can you you want
I I'd be glad to research the hell out
of that if you want it it'll take time
and it'll Slow Me Down from doing other
stuff but I I do not think that that is
a a good way to
go and uh I think that you
know the likelihood if Carol wants to
stay on after her current term which has
another three years to go more than
three
years and wants to stay on in an
appointed
position uh the chances are not certain
but great that she'll be
reappointed and and I but I think to
make it try to make it certain in a
charter
um I I I can't see doing that
when you've got a statute that allows
you well it allows you to choose between
an elected Town Clerk or a uh an
appointed one and for all these years
we've chosen to be a town that has an
elected Town Clerk and for switching
over to an appointed one it would if you
if you make it mandatory that the person
that filled the position
in the last time person was elected for
the position is going to stay on without
having to run for it again I think that
is uh that's like that's like making an
eight-year term starting in 20
23 um I I don't think that that's
constitutional my gut
that's can I ask a question can I ask
question on the on the language that's
on the left on the the one that was
provided Carol that that was filled in
by you correct because we you know we
didn't have all that when we voted
correct on the left is what
Adrian that in red is what Adrien
proposed and at the bottom it Bob
Scrolls to the bottom it shows the
meeting that it was voted
on um he had sent us over a document to
via email so I copy and pasted all of
that information and that's what's in
red okay but that wasn't attached to the
minutes again it was just like what
happened with mine on the Ordinance one
oh yes okay all right let me let me
speak up on this so it it seems that if
we are operating on the presumption that
the town clerk is a hired position and
that person then holds the position in
perpetuity then what Adrien proposed
here is consistent and rational with
that position if on the other hand as we
understand it better uh how Dennis has
laid it out that it is a position that
has a four-year contract that is up for
Renewal or reappointment every four
years then Dennis is absolutely correct
that this language of the incumbent
automatically uh taking over and and
continuing in that position is
inconsistent so
I think what Dennis has done here makes
sense I mean I may not I mean this is a
question
of and this would be a question of when
the town clerk would be appointed so the
town clerk would be appointed by the
next Board of Selectmen that would be
elected
correct you would appoint Carol Lee if
she wanted the job if Carol Lee does not
want the job then
the community should be out looking for
a town clerk before that election date
because you wouldn't want it to get to
jul January so you you would be really
concern I would be really concerned so I
I will be on that board
of I'd be on the board in in that
timeline I'd be asking Carol in July if
Carol plans on staying if Carol planned
on staying we'd draft a contract and
have it ready to go if Carol would not
stay then the community needs to start
looking for someone to fill that role I
I'm just telling you logistically what
would happen and it's really the same as
what would happen if if uh it was an
elected position because she would start
considering her campaign some number of
months before the election so there'd be
activity there's really strong parallels
here so
um
I I just know you
you I mean I don't have a problem with
Dennis's Dennis's language I but I'm
trying to read what would not be in
there and what would we want to have in
there I mean the only thing that Dennis
changed that is different
is the removal of the town clerk he he
did change that and that the question I
would ask Carol what is what is the
removal of the Town
Administrator okay so the removal of the
town I can find that in here no it would
be further it would be the other way you
think so no here it is
701e
yeah okay then it should be the same
thing as the Town Administrator
removal so that is the language for all
of the
appointed
officers of the Town yep
right because didn't I read that three
votes yeah no you want to make it the
same thing four fifths super majority
yeah so the only thing that I want to
point out is the town assessor the
building official
um so this office shall have permanent
status that's the only thing that I'm
thinking maybe to to put in there rather
than every
4year
appointment then I just want to point
that out if you read the assessor
702a it says um this office shall have
permanent
status that's fine I think by Statute by
State Statute we probably as a town
couldn't abolish the town clerk's
office right
but that's fine and then the treasurer
shall have permanent status that's fine
put that in there Dennis so I I'm just
pointing that out I'm not find a way in
one way or the other I just wanted to
point that out because I'm abstaining
from everything but I did just want to
point that and even our Public Works
maintenance team leader they have
permanent status so let's be consistent
so wait a minute wait a minute wait a
minute please the the language in in in
in the building official Town assessor
all of those things says this office
shall have permanent status doesn't say
the person filling the office show no
the office I mean you can do that right
what's that just say the office be
consistent between all of the different
thing it's not the office it's not it's
not the individual has permanent status
it's the office so what Carol is saying
and what the charter would say is the a
rogue Board of Selectmen couldn't just
abolish the office yeah but isn't the
office of town clerk required by state
law it is yeah then we don't need to in
the
charter I agree I I can't see putting it
in the charter but the one thing that we
could do you know I have assumed because
the terms have always been four years
that we would continue with a four-year
term so that the uh you know there would
be an opportunity at the end of the four
years for the board of a future board of
Selectmen and I certainly won't be
around and uh maybe maybe uh not
everybody on this on this B would be
around but uh at least not operating as
town of Handover officials will be uh
you know making the decision way way
down the line uh you know you could you
could have an indefinite make an
indefinite term or or you could we're
not asking I don't think Carol was
asking for the term I don't think we
should change the term four years is
sufficient it's it's
fine what Carol was saying was all of
the other offices say it's a permanent
office put it in the Tom Clerk's new new
verbiage just let's put it
in everything else sure if everybody
else is comfortable with it I'm fine I
mean I'd be fine with it and it's not
you're 100% right it's statuto required
but we're just putting into our our our
Charter to be consistent with all the
other offices or we go into all the
other offices and remove that that
verbage which I'm not in favor of just
put it in it's a permanent
office okay I disagree your wishes I I
disagree I these other positions are a
are not
required by by State Statute but we're
just saying we're putting them into the
into the charter to protect them but the
accessor is guaranteed a is it State
statutorily yes
probably I don't I don't know for sure
but probably so uh building official is
too um it has to be a building
official uh I don't I don't know about
all the others Animal Control
the only one that's not statuto required
Bob is the director of Public
Works I bet you I bet you everything
else is statutorily required and the
town attorney is not but I bet it's not
in
there yeah Town engineer is
not no that's
right
so clerk definitely is yeah def so is
the what I'll put it let's let's move on
no Bob doesn't want to we now we're g to
vote we're gonna I don't want to sit
there and have a problem I just let's
there and just decide what we're gonna
do we don't need to put it in I'm just
saying that we don't need to put it in
Carol is pointing it out so for the
benefit of the the town clerk's office I
would sit there and say it's a doesn't
mean anything it it's statutorily
required we're just putting in a charter
that no one no Board of Selectmen could
try
to you know eradicate the office of the
town clerk okay Jeff make a
motion I make a motion that we put in
that can you go to the language in the
other groups Bob so I can see
it right
there um assessor there you go uh I make
a motion that
um okay I make a motion that we include
the verbage in the town clerk section
section is that
702 uh right that the office shall have
permanent
status so I'm making a motion that we
include in section
7020 the town clerks that the town
clerk's office shall have permanent
status does someone want to second that
or no I'll second it Trisha Bill thank
you any further discussion on the
subject all those in
favor right one two
three Carol how are you voting on that
four
Jody yes or
no you're muted sorry I'm trying to
record the motion here with typing I am
a a no a negative okay so we have uh
four positives and I'm voting no two
negatives so it carries
okay all right I'll do
it all right let's move
on
okay uh I think uh I don't know if I saw
a vote on this
but I don't know where it came from but
uh I did eliminate subject to the
approval of the town meeting that the
board of Selectmen may add May appoint
additional officers as the needs of the
Town
require subject to budgetary
Appropriations so I I I lined out
subject to the approval of the town
meeting I don't see why he would he
would need town meeting approval for
that especially in view of the new
system we're doing here where the board
of selectman has more ordinance
Authority among other
things but that can go whatever you want
to
do what additional officers would we
appoint or could be appointed let's just
go that
way
anybody don't only limited by your
imagination by your and your experience
so so no matter what the board of
Selectmen or a board of Selectmen tried
to do if they wanted to add an
additional employee that employee would
have to go through the budgetary process
and then it would have to be approved by
the voters
anyway
yes so did so did we do that with the
community director um uh yes we did but
we we put it through the budgetary
process and gave a budgetary item for
that and so but I don't necessarily
consider that an officer like what I'm
really conf cons confused about is the
term
officer like what does additional
officers mean and Jody I'm sitting there
going the any employee or any new
position the board of Selectmen can
recommend a new position to be just like
we did with Public Works we put a new
Public Works person in we put the person
in for the community center um but those
appointments that we were attempting to
make had to have a budgetary dollar with
them to get
approved so I just don't understand what
additional officers
means Dennis I agree I agree I I don't I
don't know what it means either it mean
you know it's uh it's not this it's not
defined in the charter but we don't know
for sure and maybe it should be instead
say
employees or
whatever or employees or public I don't
know I mean that one if that's what it
is so Carol on the left we have we have
our Charter and in 703 says additional
officers and employees the board of
Selectmen subject to approval of the
town meeting May appoint such additional
officers as needed as the needs of the
Town require subject to budgetary
Appropriations that's how the charter is
written right now
exactly I I mean
um I guess what the what is currently
happening the what is currently done
logistically
is the board of selectman recommends a
new position the new position moves to
the board of Finance with a dollar
amount attached to it the board of
Finance like in the case of the
current
um Community Center Director um they
lowered the budgetary amount and that
got passed so those are the restrictions
that were under so we recommended one
number the board of Finance came with a
little bit lower number and that's the
number that we're out there trying to
obtain an employee
that's done in a roundabout way like you
just said that's process you put it in
the budget it's proposed at the annual
Town budget
meeting
passes doz so around about way the
town's follow so the town you know we
could remove that because I don't know
like we don't approve even employees the
town of meeting does not require to
improve
an employee I I don't know what an
officer would be I don't understand who
we would ever appoint who a board of
Select would appoint as an officer so I
don't even like the whole section to be
really honest um
but any like to suggest that we sh the
whole thing can can I can I just say
this we appointed a blight officer a
blight hearing office you have appointed
officers they're not paid positions but
you have appointed officers so you may
want to leave that in but we didn't get
it approved by the town
meeting right you violated you did did
because no wonder why people don't think
I'm trustor they J you did got
BL you got the blight ordinance passed
and in the body of that blight ordinance
was a provision for the people who were
given a blight notice to appeal it so
you have a pointed Carol Carol's got
your back Jeff she she says you're
you're good I'm good
okay um but that's a great example Carol
you know there might be things that the
I don't know there might be a um a an
appointed um officer of the town at the
park where the dogs are being left off
leash that has the authority to notify
the town to subject that individual to a
fine um I know I'm a marine patrol
officer for the town of Colombia and I
have that sort of ability that direction
to issue a warning goes to the selectman
and they can issue fine so maybe that
would be something they wanted
flexibility for our board to have
officers for different things Le let
let's clarify that because I I want to I
I do want to understand
that the blight enforcement officer that
we had was the zoning enforcement
officer
correct yes right but we have a blight
hearing officer no we have a hearing
officer not a blight hearing officer we
have a a hearing officer
we right we have a hearing officer
correct Dennis what's ter what's his
term I what's his what's his title I'm
just
asking uh
um oh god um was in the body of that
last you
did hearing hearings officer that
hearing officer could hear
any pretty generic first one we've ever
had did a great job on his first hearing
he's fantastic oh okay and he's not paid
he's the volunteer volunteer and and in
fact that I don't know that Jim how
salary was increased when he got the
additional responsibilities as blight
enforcement
officer uh which which in addition to
his uh role as zoning enforcement
officer for which I'm sure he's
paid uh I think thatti section
um we
have Carol I understand what Carol is
saying um it is in the document of the
the the ordinance that was approved but
it's a that's a mess right right there
because I don't think that the town
follows it I don't think the board of
Selectmen follows that appropriately I
don't think it's drafted correctly I
don't think it's we don't go to town
meeting to approve employees we don't go
we didn't go to town to approve the
appointment of the blight officer it
might have been in the document Carol
that says we were going to have to do it
but we never went and said here's the
appointment um no I just think that's a
well that's one reason I lined that part
out yeah okay I'm just trying to be
helpful you know yeah always leave it
leave it leave it go I mean it has to be
that whole thing should be worked on in
the next group so are we gonna I think
take out that line subject to the
approval of the town
meeting I think we leave it untouched
and it becomes the subject of the next
uh review commission that
one's one's kind that one's touchy
yeah if we touch it we own it all right
I think we leave it
alone all right sorry hope I didn't hope
I didn't waste too much time interesting
discussion
though okay 705 leave
it I'm gonna just take it right out of
the
documents
yep all
right now we're getting to uh
finance and Taxation now all of this
stuff that I put that I added in I got
from Carol's
document hopefully I got it right
Carol these are changes that were made I
wasn't familiar with these very much
these are changes that you you're you're
trying to make to uh streamline the
budget process it seems is a good a
noble uh
Venture but um I just th I just added it
in um pretty much what Carol
had so you just copied and
pasted well I did what I do yes pretty
much now would
be all the way down
to E1 of that
section
yeah
yeah of that
section of section
802 right
but then it goes on to 803 as
well
right yeah this is all just verbatim
from what we
submitted well as long as I didn't make
any typographical mistakes which I'll
surely correct if I can the
um the the only other thing I want to
bring up about this is
that I think
from De I I heard that uh you wanted to
line up the budget vote the initial
budget vote on the town budget with the
uh budget vote by the Regional School
District yes and I didn't I didn't know
how that goes into this because this is
pretty specific about
you do the budget vote and when it's
done and I was wondering
if having a budget
vote well the regional B budget vote has
nothing to do with your local budget
right I mean in terms of your of your
voting on
it
right okay you could have them
s right we were trying to just do that
Hein did does that then so this language
from he's
Charter okay so I
didn't all right go ahead the language
in section 803 is what lines
up our budget with the regional
budget okay without saying without
saying so specifically
right I see
I I was looking for it I couldn't I was
wondering where it would fit
in no that's the
reason3
okay so moving on to 803
then same thing from my uh I I took this
from Carol's
document
okay so we have some sections that are
stricken in their
entirety and some with some major
removals and such
I think this could that stuff was pretty
well beaten to death in our prior
meetings discussed we don't need to
revisit
it so that would take us to section
805 supplemental appropri don't know if
I got that right
here's the board of
Finance change things from a half
percent to 1% in paragraph
B we added the new paragraph about two
and a half percent or
$200,000 that was all um Adrian's
language
everything here seems to be reflecting
what we
submitted everybody good with
that
okay so now we go all the way up to 103
I skipped something
here the Cosmetic change yeah I
just conflicts of interest except any
reference okay yeah just a a
reference
exactly and
then Carol suggested the change to
section
1010 taking out the fact that as she
knows very well as town clerk that
resignation uh you don't need to have
resentation accepted by the board of
selectman simply because we have a 13th
Amendment to the
Constitution and you can't make
people stay on when they don't want to
resign unless they're
in yeah yeah but that's but we're not do
we're not dealing with that here are we
I don't think so I
don't can you go back yeah we missed
something here right there um Dennis you
missed something in section 108 review
and amendment of
Charter we had submitted proposed
language if on rep review I I took that
out I I I I I took it out because um
I think it is um there are times when
something will come up U on an almost
emergency
basis and when you have a charter the
the one disadvantage and there are very
few disadvantages of having a charter as
opposed to uh you know being governed by
ordinance it's easier to pass an
ordinance real fast if you have an
emergency that needs to be addressed by
some sort of action legislative action
so I I I think making I I I understand
why you feel this way because you've
been uh you've taken on an awful lot of
work in a very short amount of time and
that was that was your choice though I
mean there were issues that were brought
up Dennis Dennis you could keep going on
on this but you have to put that in the
draft I'm just tell I'm just saying
voted on it was voted on it may not may
not make it all the way through the
process but you've got to put it in all
right I'll put it in real
simple I talk to Carol about it this
morning I told her what I thought about
it but you know I didn't put it in put
it in yeah I guess unless Dennis there
something legally that would prohibit us
from doing that then it is we voted I
think we had a 42 vote on
that that's a that's that is a good
question that is a legal question but I
think probably the answer to that
question is
that
um the general rule on charters on
dealing with a charter is you it is home
rule and you can do whatever you want to
do within certain really uh broad
boundaries okay as long as it's not anue
as long as it's not an issue that would
be of concern to the state and probably
even though the state passed this law
for a particular purpose
this home rule act you limiting the uh
the uh application of the home rule act
in Andover to you know it's got to be at
least six months six months for what six
months you mean for submission of the
minimum term it was a minimum term just
it has to go in it has to go in it was
voted on I voted against it people voted
for it we're on a committee it's how it
works put it in
I know how it works I'm just let's go
don't waste our time we've got to go I I
got I got I got to eat dinner everybody
wants to eat dinner I want to check out
Karen shoes I like there's got to be
something better going on let's go all
right I'll put it in than you
Jeff you got it Jeff thank you you got
it Jeff I hope I'm G I I I hope I find
somewhere that it's not legal but I'm
not gonna look at it I'm not going to
look it up it's not I don't care I don't
care I'm just trying to be helpful we
appreciate appreciate your advice let's
keep going thank you I'm sorry you're
hungry Jeff that's too bad okay he's not
just hungry he's hangry I'm
angry yeah well I know how we I don't
get angry work with anyway all right the
effective date I I generally make the
charter effective the uh end of the
fiscal year the current fiscal year the
charter has passed in but there are
certain items that uh uh especially the
budget item you want to get that
effective right
away but usually the charter is not the
charter Provisions that are newly passed
do not become effective the next day
after the charter
passes but we can do that with the way
I've written it with the exception of
any revisions enacted
to uh but enacted uh regarding finance
and Taxation which may be implemented
immediately so that that means you would
be able to implement your changes is if
they pass through the uh finance and
budgetary part uh immediately for the
budget to be developed in the early part
uh of of
2025 okay hold on hold on
so that's
section that section I I I'm okay with
that section I was I was down
to 1012 1012 yeah I don't think there's
any need for that section at all anymore
because that that's all of that stuff is
in the um earlier sections where you
know you've been electing a board of uh
I'm sorry all these Boards of Finance
Boards of
Education uh you're on you're on a A
system that that uh I think is
self-explanatory it's in the uh it's in
the early part of the charter I don't
think you need all that stuff in the
transition okay so so back to that
section just just so so
1012 was the transition in the
1999 Charter
revision okay so we don't need so we
don't need it we can get rid of that but
we should vote on
that yeah I'm trying to get rid of it or
unanimous consent which I really like
Bob yeah well 1010 1012 and 1013 are all
historical at this point it seems I I I
agree
Bob 1013 could be done away with
too yeah we I don't want pi too
much yeah I think we can keep 104 do do
you want to keep those for historical
record sure progress of town or any I
guess I just don't understand if there's
any need High Charters are kept
historical Jody prior Charters are all
kept we sort of have what it was
permanent permanent any office so every
rendition of Charter has a version with
the town clerk yes got it and to draw a
comparison if you look at the
Connecticut General statutes when they
make a change they make a change and
then there are Historical Notes that are
separate from the statutes for what it's
worth but they don't keep the old laws
in with the new laws what unclutters it
yeah okay then you know through
unanimous consent if no one has any
objections we will delete in their
entirety sections 1012 and 1013 because
they are Superfluous outdated
historical hearing no objections so
ordered I think Bob needs a
gavel for routine administrative
actions uh you don't you don't the
motion and second and vote especially
you know if you have 435 congressmen
kind of thing 438 whatever the number is
535 um so that that's where unanimous
consent comes from where voting becomes
uh an onerous process commission is six
people seven people is not so
bad okay so do we wait do we need
section
1014 except as otherwise provided Ser
specific ter Contin serve unless the
office abolished the C fire or vacated
we have kind of
a sentence fragment there is that
something that we did Carol
or that is part of our Charter right now
and all I did was put in um added that
changed it to 2020
Dennis do we need that
section I don't think so as Carol
pointed out and I knew Carol I knew you
were going to do that you have copies of
all the old
Charters and uh you know you don't need
you don't need this kind of historic
stuff okay so we'll remove that we'll
include that you just the date of
2024 but um
Superfluous
yeah we'll remove that we will all agree
again through unanimous consent unless I
hear any objections so
ordered that brings us to the end of
Dennis's revision
document so we obviously have revisions
to the revisions
which we need to get as quickly as you
can process them
Dennis yeah I'm gonna work with Carol on
right
Carol yes Dennis we'll work on it
tomorrow
morning
okay as you know I have covid so I I
won't be showing up in the office yeah
okay we can do this every over the phone
yeah okay Carol you will notice the
newly scheduled meeting for Thursday I
will post that
tomorrow and try to get the notes up as
uh Jeff has requested the minute the
minutes
sorry all
right that brings us to next item on the
agenda
which is public
speak does anyone
have
any items that they wish let me just uh
unshare
here how do I how do I do
this that's a good question how do I
unshare ex usually a button at the
bottom share screen button at the bottom
you can stop yeah well that that screen
is gone and all I have is a thumbnail of
everybody's uh
faces that's uh interesting well Bob if
there's no public speak uh I'd like to
make make a motion to
adjourn seconded all in favor by by see
you all on Thursday all right thank you
by everyone
night thank you good night good night
thanks
Dennis thank
you H there it
is and we're off the air